[Applause]
[Music]
what's up and welcome to this new the
PPC Mastery podcast episode about demand
gen best practices and in this episode I
quickly want to discuss some best
practices around the main gen campaigns
already that are well basically best
practice from my end the stuff that I
know already but also a lot of best
practice from from Google themselves so
I have been lucky to test the dimension
campaign type within just one account
already this is a bigger International
client I haven't really gathered a lot
of data and a lot of learnings already
but I want to share some best practices
and some know-how already so maybe you
can well you can utilize this
information when you're going to set up
your First Dimension campaign a lot of
this information is going to be based on
well Google's best practices as well as
well what they basically meant us as
advertisers to do when setting up a
dimension campaign so let's dive in
let's dive in so in this episode I want
to zoom in on six key areas which are
conversion tracking structure budgets
bidding strategy
creatives and audiences so let's quickly
go through them and let's start off with
the conversion tagging part so I think
it is important to implement a Google
ads conversion tracking conversion
action which is basically a Gtech pixel
because you want to rely on a Gtech
pixel sa conversion action for your
upper funnel campaigns since the
attribution is a little bit more clear
and you're able to leverage additional
features like future and engage
conversions as well but what I see from
practice is when you are going to
utilize a offline conversion tracking
import for example that your OCT
conversion action is well is is having
troubles properly attributing the
offline conversion towards your mid and
upper funnel campaign types so what I
have seen happening in my accounts
especially looking at this display
Discovery and YouTube campaigns is that
the regular Gtech the Google as
conversion tracking pixel is able to
attribute a lot of more conversions
towards your upper frontal campaign
types than octs so make sure to to
leverage this conversion action when
you're going to experiment with
Dimension also which is quite obvious
make sure to have data driven
attribution enabled so Google is well
giving you more information about the
customer journey and the conversion path
from your dimension campaign all the way
up to your well Low Bottom water funnel
search shopping campaign in the near
future
what you also want to do when going to
experiment with a dimension campaign is
utilizing a third-party software tool so
what I've seen happening is that Google
ads is really becoming quite aggressive
saying that certain conversions are
coming from their end and their
ecosystem whereas other well other
campaign types that are well off
platform like meta ads or LinkedIn ads
or even other channels like organic
email also basically had a attribution
towards the conversion so if you're
going to experiment with the dimension
campaign type make sure to
incorporate a third-party attribution
tool like North beam or Rocker Box or
whatever you you like to fully
understand what's happening at the back
so you can properly well take a look at
the attribution and properly report on
what's actually happening from your
dimension campaign because Google ads
might be over attributing a lot when
when when utilizing a campaign type like
this so next up campaign structure well
basically when we're going to look at
the campaign structure best practices a
lot of the best practices apply to other
campaign types as well so if you take a
look at BMX or search basically you want
to consolidate whenever possible you
want to consolidate on ad group level
and you want to consolidate on ad group
you want to consolidate on campaign
level and on ad group level whenever
that is possible and it makes sense and
that applies to demand gen campaign
types as well when you're going to
experiment with a dimension campaign you
want to make sure that you do not make
any changes in the first couple of two
weeks which is a well learning period
for the dimension campaign because
Google is saying that it needs at least
50 conversions to properly understand
where your audience is hanging out in
their ecosystem and you do not want to
well mess with the algorithm before the
first 50 conversions are being well are
being measured so you want you do not
want to make any changes in the first
two weeks and you want to wait for at
least 50 conversions before making any
changes so that's a lot of volume you
need in order to well make the first
couple of optimizations within the
Mansion already
then when we take a look at the budget
side of things the recommended minimum
budget is really really really high so
this new campaign type is basically only
applicable to the bigger advertisers
across the world because you need at
least 100 to 500 euros per day per ad
group so that's not even talking about
campaign level so the recommended test
budget according to Google is 15 to 50K
across a period from four to six weeks
so that's a lot of budgets so that means
that this new campaign type is not being
applicable or not being the best choice
for a lot of small to medium size
advertisers so you need a lot of budget
in order to test with this campaign type
so and that testing budget isn't even
going going to guarantee you any results
so you need to be able to allocate this
test budget and be able to fully drain
it as well if it cannot drive you any
results luckily the bigger advertisers
have already experimented or have
Incorporated Discovery campaigns already
and basically demand gen is going to
replace Discovery so if you have some
historical data from your Discovery
campaigns already you might be able to
tell if the man gen is going to work for
you or not at the same time
Dimension incorporates a video action
campaign or like well ad type and also
best practices so you can also take a
look at your video action campaigns if
you have if you rent these in the best
or maybe you're even running them right
now to see if dimanjian could be a wise
option for you to to incorporate within
your campaign structure so be very
mindful about flipping the switch and
testing with the man gen because you
need a lot of budget 15 to 50K over a
period of four to six weeks to properly
test this for your account and you
should be able to to waste this if it
isn't going to give you any traction so
keep that in mind if you take a look at
the
at the at the bidding strategy well this
is where it becomes a little bit
interesting as well so according to
Google ads documentation you need to set
a minimum budget that is times 20 your
average order value divided by your
target row as or if you want to bid on a
Target CPA bidding strategy then you
need a budget that is at least 15 times
as high as your target CPA or expected
CPA if you do not have a Target CPA from
the very first beginning so let's say
you have a non-branded search GPA of 100
euros then I like to use the rule of
fist of multiplying that times two in
order to well start off with a Target
CPA for my mid and upper funnel
campaigns so if I were to run a display
or YouTube video for action campaign
then I like to use the times to
non-branded search GPA as my well new
Target so let's say your target CPI is
200 Euros for a dimension campaign then
you need to multiply that multiply that
by 15 times and that will be your
average daily budget
so 15 times 200 Euros is I guess three
three thousand Euros per day and that's
a lot of money that's a lot of money so
if you were to multiply multiply that
daily budget by
30 days then well you can calculate what
your minimum monthly spent will be in
order to fully give the algorithms the
room to search for your ideal customer
profile that it's actually going to
convert and they will need this
information to and these volumes to find
your ideal customer in order to properly
give you consistent consistent returns
and the chances are that you aren't
going to see any conversion at all and
that you are going to be wasting your
budget during the test period so that is
a very very very big disclaimer that you
should be able to well
yeah that that you should keep in mind
before doubling in so that's budget wise
you need a lot of budgets and a lot of
daily budget in order to to allocate
this within your account structure so
just to recap this I think the main gen
is only applicable for the biggest
advertisers that are really looking for
ways to scale and to plant the seeds
into their ideal customer Minds in the
mid and upper funnel for Mid and small
size advertisers you really really want
to max out the bottom of the funnel
campaign types first like search
shopping maybe even BMX then I would
suggest experimenting with a campaign
specific types like display and video
for action and then if you are seeing
somewhat great returns from those or
profano emit of the funnel campaign
types already then you want to start
experimenting with the man gen I do not
think you want to experiment any sooner
as a small color to mid-size Advertiser
and I think the same could be applicable
for the larger advertisers as well so
keep that in mind
then looking at bidding strategies well
if you take a look at bidding strategies
you can
select up to five bidding strategies
inside of the man gen so you have the
possibility to select a campaign goal in
the first step of the campaign Wizard
and those are conversions clicks or
conversion value and up and based on the
selection based on your campaign goal
you will see up to five different
bidding strategies so if you select
conversions you will be able to select
maximize conversions and that is the
applicable or the recommended starting
point if you want to focus on maximize
conversions while you want to make the
switch towards a specific Target CPA
once you have reached the 50 conversions
thresholds so if you select this
campaign goal you can then later on
select a Target CPA as well if you
select clicks you're able to well only
select one bidding strategy and you
aren't really able to select this
bidding strategy because the campaign
widget will do it for you and that is
maximize clicks and lastly when you
select conversion value as a campaign
goal you will see two options either
maximize conversion value and that is
the recommended starting point for you
if you are well measuring
varying conversion values as a Ecom
player for example or a SAS player and
later on you can make the switch to
Target row as if you have gathered
minimum 50 conversions within this
campaign type during the testing phase
so those are the the different bidding
strategies that you can utilize once
again the ideal starting point should be
maximize conversions or maximize
conversion value and then make this
transition to either Target CPA or
target.s once you have 50 conversions in
place and I think you only want to use
the maximize clicks bidding strategy if
you do not have a performance goal to be
completely honest I think if you were to
select maximize clicks you will be
wasting your budgets quite heavily
because Google will definitely just
fill in the low quality placements
inside of their ecosystem first well
since they do not have to look at the
possible conversions of a placement so
if you are not going to utilize maximize
conversions or maximize conversion value
and later on target drawers or Target
CPA then I would stay away because I
think you will be definitely wasting
your budget if you're going to utilize
maximize clicks
okay then let's take a look at creatives
well basically what you can do inside of
the campaign wizard is you can create
multiple ad groups and within each ad
group you have the
opportunity or the possibility to create
multiple different ads and multiple
different ad types so you can select
three different ad types a video ad a
single image ad and a carousel image ad
which is new within every single ad
group and that is quite interesting on
ad group level you're able to select a
audience so basically you want to
consolidate your your audiences
on ad group level and then create
specific different ad types for the
specific placement Types on ad group
level per audience so to say so if
you're looking at the video ads you have
the possibility to add up to five
different videos including shorts
there's no specific short option so you
cannot really select a a I want to only
Leverage The YouTube shorts format so
you have to incorporate different
in-stream YouTube ads and different
short ads inside of that one specific
video at placement type so add up to
five videos then you're able to add up
to five headlines five long headlines
that contains 90 characters each five
description lines that also contain 90
characters each
you can then select a call to action a
business name a business logo and you
can select up to well I think four site
links and these site links can be shown
together with your in-stream at for for
example and if you have been running
dedicated video action campaigns before
then you should know that you can also
include site links over there as well so
well that's it for video ads then if you
take a look at single image ads that is
quite similar to a responsive display ad
so you can add up to 20 images
into three different aspect ratios so a
landscape mode a portrait mode a square
a ratio so preferably you want to
utilize every single aspect ratio then
you can add up to five different logos
into different aspect ratios as well
five headlines with 40 characters
instead of 30 characters each then five
description lines and one call to action
and a business name
and then we have the carousel image ads
type which is new and this is quite cool
in my opinion and this is where you can
basically create a carousel ads that
consists consists up to 10 different
cards that are swipeable and every
single card has up to three Unique
Images or three images that could be the
same into three different aspect ratios
as well so Square portrait and landscape
modes and for every single card you can
also utilize a unique fun URL and a
unique call to action and this is
basically a carousel ad that is quite
similar to The Meta ads Carousel ad and
well this can be shown into the Discover
page the Discover feed inside of the
Google app on Android devices for
example so that's quite interesting
because I haven't seen this before and
we haven't seen this before inside of
other campaign types so for all of the
assets and all of the ads you really
want to leverage your own creatives so
since you really need a high test budget
of at least 15 to 50K in the first four
to six weeks you really want to pay
attention to the quality of your ads and
your assets so you do not want to
leverage any stock images stock videos
or long crappy business videos for your
well video ads for example because this
will definitely not work and this will
definitely not work on well YouTube
short placements because these really
need to be optimized for all of these
specific placements that you that your
dimension at can can deliver on so since
the minimum budget is so high I think a
case could be made to allocate a few
thousands of Euros in order to properly
create ads yourself for this new type as
well so if you're going to experiment
with this with this and you're going to
allocate let's say 30k during the test
period then well I think it is more than
reasonable to allocate up to 5K for
Creative creation as well to hire a
video agency to create in-stream YouTube
ads YouTube short specific ads really
nice images that can complement your
video ads as well that are optimized for
mobile screens there's all there are a
lot of best practices I would recommend
looking up the ABCD framework for video
ads for example this is the attract
brand connect direct framework that
YouTube basically uses as a best
practice to generate and create YouTube
ads and YouTube shorts for so really pay
attention to your own creatives before
doubling into Dimension campaign types
also what you can do and what you can
think about is to replicate your video
action campaigns since I think YouTube
placements are going to be a very big
part of well the spent allocation within
the main gen campaigns so if you have
done video action campaigns in the past
you might want to take a look at what
has worked well for you and what well
what didn't work so you can afford
making mistakes or you can avoid using
creatives that are really giving you
poor or gave you poor performing results
so
take a look at your historical data as
well
also keep in mind the channel
temperature and this is a very very big
one because you're going to be
advertising in the top of the funnel and
mid of the funnel instead of the Google
ads ecosystem and that means that a lot
of people will not know your brand and
will not know about your service so make
sure to use a call to action or use a
offer that matches the channel
temperature so do not copy your
performance Max headlines and
description lines for example that are
focused towards book a consultation now
or book a demo now or take a look at our
prices or whatever or contact us today
those are way too
hot and way too warm call to actions
that are really applicable for search
bottom of the funnel Focus performance
Max campaigns but they are really not
applicable for upper funnel and mid
funnel campaign types like the man gen
YouTube display and until now Discovery
so make sure to really think about hey
what creatives and what kind of offers
and call to actions can we use to to
introduce our brand interview introduce
our Solutions introduce our services
products to our to our ICP ideal
customer profile that makes sense and
that isn't really hard to complete so
think about this real good before
starting to create your assets and
before you're actually going to set live
your dimension campaign
then well during the testing phase you
really need some budget first and you
really need to give it some space so at
least two weeks after the launch then
you can start making changes inside of
your assets and audiences for example if
you see bad performing assets then try
to swap swap them out as soon as
possible in order to optimize your
dimension campaigns right from the start
so to say
so that's it yeah with regards to
creatives then let's take a look at
audiences real quick and this is the
last part and this is quite interesting
as well because we have seen some new
features over here that might be that
might be rolling out inside of other
campaign types in the near future as
well so
basically what we have seen and this is
the new feature we have seen new
look-alike audiences that basically give
you the opportunity to expand upon your
seed lists and your seed lists are
basically your first party data lists
that can be remarketing lists that can
be customer list and it is really up to
you how segmented these lists are inside
of your audience inside of Dimension you
can select up to 10 well seat lists and
you can create a custom combination of
remarketing lists customer lists that
can be segmented or not yourself and
then based on those seedless you can ask
Google ads to expand on those lists and
you basically have the opportunity to
create a very narrow expansion that
starts with two and a half percent up to
a broad expansion that goes to 10
percent and that basically looks at your
ideal
first party customer data segments and
then expands on the top two and a half
five ten percent of your first party
data to look for well new potential
customers and this is the first
expansion that you can actually do based
on your first party data segments then
on ad group level you have also the
opportunity to select optimize targeting
so you can first create a look-alike
segment based on your first party data
which is already going more Broad and
then on ad group level you can decide to
whether or not create optimized
targeting that will even that will will
broaden up your audience targeting even
more
so keep in mind that your audiences
inside of Dimension are targeting they
are not signals like you are used to
within BMX but they become signals if
you decide to enable optimize targeting
and when you're going to experiment with
your look-alike segments starting from
narrow up till abroad so that's quite
interesting this is a new feature and I
think how it looks yeah what I think I
think they will be rolling this out to
other campaign types as well like
performance Max maybe even display maybe
even YouTube slash video campaigns right
now they're only applicable to Dimension
but it looks that well integrated that
other campaign types might be utilizing
this feature in the near future as well
so what I would suggest
from the start
try to only utilize your best audience
segments first stay as close to your
first party data audience segments and
maybe create a small narrow look-alike
segment based on that then also create
custom in-market audiences based on
Google Google well the top performer and
Google Search terms for example and wait
for the optimize starting feature in the
very first start what I would suggest is
to only broaden up and use optimize
targeting if you have well converted
some clicks already and if you are
running on a Target CPA and Target row s
already so you really have to go past
the learning period first then make this
switch from Max conversions to Target
CPA or maximize conversion value to
Target OS and then start experimenting
with what optimized targeting can do and
how it can expand on your audience
segments from there if you start off
with with Optimus targeting from the
very first start
I think you are going too broad too soon
especially since you're not utilizing a
Target CPA or Target row as from the
very first start so keep that in mind
also you can well broaden up your
audience segments before switching to
optimize targeting so if you start off
with a really specific narrow segmented
out audience segment inside of your
audience audience essentially then you
can start off with broadening up that
first adding in more broad search terms
for example or broader in Market
audiences or maybe even broader customer
customer lists or remarketing lists and
then after you're seeing great results
and you want to expand even further
after that specific moment start to
expand on optimize targeting because
that will give you the control that you
might be looking for in the first couple
of weeks when testing out this new
campaign type so those are really the
most important best practices right now
so to finalize and to give you more my
honest opinion about this campaign type
is that I think this is a great campaign
type for a lot of mature bigger
advertisers that are looking to expend
their reach and that are looking to well
plant the right seats
inside of the heads of potential
interesting future customers I think it
should be if it works a always-on
campaign so if it if it is giving you
great results you want to run this
campaign in order to well to work on
your brand exposure to maybe increase
your conversion lifts your brand lifts
Etc so for those advertisers that are
really focused on increasing brand
awareness and product and brand
consideration in the mid and upper phase
well it's a great consideration to
include this campaign type if you are a
low to mid-size Advertiser that isn't
really mature and you haven't
experimented with Discovery video for
Action campaigns display at all or you
haven't even maxed out bottom of the
funnel campaign types like pmax search
shopping then you really really want to
max out and try with and try to
experiment with those campaign main type
specific or campaign specific types
first before doubling into demand gen
because I think you really should should
be mature and you really should be
sitting on a big budget when Dimension
could be interesting for you so I'm
interesting to see case studies in the
future about advertisers hopefully
successfully utilizing this new campaign
type it is really new right now I think
there isn't really a lot of data as of
this very moment but yeah hopefully I
can give you some more heads up and more
results about the case that I'm
currently running but I think other
mature Google s Specialists and other
accounts are already doing tests with
this or as well so those people and
those Specialists might be sharing their
first reactions and their first results
with us SD community in the near future
as well so stay tuned hopefully you
found this episode interesting and it
gave you some nice little insights and
hopefully this I hope to see you around
in the next future the PPC Mastery
podcast episode so see you around and
bye bye ciao
[Music]